1	Nighthawks	Edward Hopper said that “Nighthawks” was inspired by “a restaurant on New York’s Greenwich Avenue where two streets meet,” but the image—with its carefully constructed composition and lack of narrative—has a timeless, universal quality that...	oil on canvas	199	1942	1
2	The Bedroom	While he was in Arles, Van Gogh made this painting of his bedroom in the Yellow House. He prepared the room himself with simple furniture and with his own work on the wall. The bright colors were meant to express absolute repose or sleep. Research shows ...	oil on canvas	69	1888	4
3	Starry Night	Turbulence is still one of the unsolved questions in physics, and since science hasn't grasped it perfectly it is thus hard to predict and represent. Turbulence is an apparently chaotic motion flow, you can see it on the water flow over a submarine, you ...	oil on canvas	19999	1889	4
4	The Swallow's Tail	The Swallow’s Tail completed in the spring in 1983, the last in a series based of paintings based on catastrophe theory, and was Salvador Dali’s last painting. Catastrophe theory, based on the thinkings of Rene Thom, posited that there are seven equi...	oil on canvas	129	1983	3
5	Haystacks	The year 1890 was a watershed moment in Claude Monet’s life— he had turned fifty and bought property for the first time. It was also the year that Monet painted the most definitive artistic series of the nineteenth century—his Haystacks. This accla...	oil on canvas	3999	1890	2
6	Night Noon	When we think of Hopper, we think of depictions of a lonely person, staring, doing nothing. High Noon is such a picture: an anonymous woman is seen in the doorway although we have no idea why. Is she waiting for someone? Or simply looking out on the day?...	oil on canvas	799	1949	1
7	Care Saint-Lazare	At the beginning of 1877, Monet moved near to Gare Saint-Lazare, of which he was subsequently to paint twelve different views. This was the first experiment that the artist made with the technique of serial repetition of a motif, a way of working that wa...	oil on canvas	19999	1877	2
8	Rembrandt and the Three Heads of Women	This is a simple sketch sheet with single drawings, just as Rembrandt made them. Picasso even drew Rembrandt’s portrait, including the typical beret with feather and his curly hair with just a couple of swift dashes. The master of abstraction made more...	sketch,etching	1999	1934	6
9	The Feast of Venus	This painting is strongly influenced by humanist thought. It seeks to celebrate the power of love and is inspired by two literary sources. One is from the description of a lost Greek painting that depicted nymphs decorating a statue of Aphrodite, the god...	oil on canvas	199	1636	7
10	Bridge Over a Pond of Water Lilies	This painting shows one of Monet's most beloved views - the Japanese bridge in his garden in Giverny, France. Throughout his career, Monet depicted series of different landscapes or objects such as poplars, haystacks, or the façade of Rouen Cathedral. S...	oil on canvas	199	1899	2
11	Impression, Sunrise	The scene painted here was of the harbor at LeHavre, France. It's a typical Monet work; sketched in oil paints on canvas, and executed quickly, to capture the moment’s atmospheric or natural light. It was painted when Monet was on vacation, looking out...	oil on canvas	199	1873	2
12	The Persistence of Memory	Salvador Dalí frequently described his paintings as “hand painted dream photographs.” He based this seaside landscape on the cliffs in his home region of Catalonia, Spain. The ants and melting clocks are recognizable images that Dalí placed in an u...	oil on canvas	199	1931	3
13	Large Bathers	The Bathers is the largest in a series of nude bather paintings by Cezanne, and is often referred to as the Large Bathers or Big Bathers to distinguish it from the other bather scenes painted by Cezanne. It is also considered one of the masterpieces of...	oil on canvas	199	1900	5